README.adoc, before:

= run-cpt
:toc: preamble

[link=https://github.com/grisumbras/run-cpt/actions]
image::https://github.com/grisumbras/run-cpt/workflows/Build/badge.svg?branch=master[Build status]

____
GitHub Action that runs conan_package_tools
____

== Usage
Example usage:

[source,yaml]
----
uses: grisumbras/run-cpt@latest
with:
  build-script: conan/build.py
  work-dir: project_files/sources
----

You can set environment variables that control Conan and CPT behaviour using
`env` key:

[source,yaml]
----
- uses: grisumbras/run-cpt@latest
  env:
    CONAN_REMOTES: https://api.bintray.com/conan/bincrafters/public-conan
----

Additionally, if `CONAN_USERNAME` is not specified, the first part of
`GITHUB_REPOSITORY` (before slash) will be used.

=== Inputs
build-script::
Path to the build script. Given `build-script: x/y/z.py`, the action will run
`python x/y/z.py`. `build.py` by default.
work-dir::
Change a current working directory to the defined in this variable. The build-script
will be run from this directory. Defaults to empty string, that is:
do not change the working directory.
install::
Install conan_package_tools before running the build script if the value is not
`no`. If the value is `latest` install the latest version, otherwise install
the version equal to that value. `latest` by default.

The following parameters allow you to customize conan and conan_package_tools behaviour. It is conrolled by environment variables and there is no way to undefine a variable from a workflow file after it was set. For example, you cannot set CONAN_DOCKER_IMAGE and then unset it. This does not allow you to use strategy.matrix to run several jobs based on variables. With these parameters you can setup the behaviour without using environment variables from a workflow file. Values from these parameters override the values of the corresponding environment variables, so you can setup default environment variables and modify the behaviour of a conan for some jobs/steps exclusivly.

compiler::
Sets which compiler conan should use. Use this option in combination with compiler-versions. Defaults to an empty string. conan_package_tools will choose a compiler based on environment variables in this case. Other supported values are:
* gcc
* apple_clang
* vs
compiler-verions::
**Required if compiler is set** While compiler option chooses which environment variable
to setup, this options sets its value:
* CONAN_GCC_VERSIONS
* CONAN_APPLE_CLANG_VERIONS
* CONAN_VISUAL_VERIONS
docker-images::
Overrides or clears CONAN_DOCKER_IMAGE environment variable. Set to an empty string to do nothing. Set to 'clear' to undefine the environment variable. Defaults to empty string.

== Maintainer
Dmitry Arkhipov <grisumbras@gmail.com>

== Contributing
Patches welcome!

== License
link:LICENSE[BSL-1.0] (C) 2019 Dmitry Arkhipov

Commit message:

Custom installation (#10)
* Add 'custom' option to 'install' parameter

Need this to be able to test forked/custom CPT in other workflows

README.adoc, after:

= run-cpt
:toc: preamble

[link=https://github.com/grisumbras/run-cpt/actions]
image::https://github.com/grisumbras/run-cpt/workflows/Build/badge.svg?branch=master[Build status]

____
GitHub Action that runs conan_package_tools
____

== Usage
Example usage:

[source,yaml]
----
uses: grisumbras/run-cpt@latest
with:
  build-script: conan/build.py
  work-dir: project_files/sources
----

You can set environment variables that control Conan and CPT behaviour using
`env` key:

[source,yaml]
----
- uses: grisumbras/run-cpt@latest
  env:
    CONAN_REMOTES: https://api.bintray.com/conan/bincrafters/public-conan
----

Additionally, if `CONAN_USERNAME` is not specified, the first part of
`GITHUB_REPOSITORY` (before slash) will be used.

=== Inputs
build-script::
Path to the build script. Given `build-script: x/y/z.py`, the action will run
`python x/y/z.py`. `build.py` by default.
work-dir::
Change a current working directory to the defined in this variable. The build-script
will be run from this directory. Defaults to empty string, that is:
do not change the working directory.
install::
Install conan_package_tools before running the build script. Available options:
* `latest` will install the latest version
* `custom` will install the package provided via `custom-package` parameter.
* `no` will skip the package installation

Defaults to `latest`.

custom-package::
Custom name/URL of the package to use with `install: custom`. Can be used to install some fork or any other package instead of the official CPT:
like `git+https://repo.com/forked-cpt.git` or `mycompany-cpt==0.32`.


The following parameters allow you to customize conan and conan_package_tools behaviour. It is conrolled by environment variables and there is no way to undefine a variable from a workflow file after it was set. For example, you cannot set CONAN_DOCKER_IMAGE and then unset it. This does not allow you to use strategy.matrix to run several jobs based on variables. With these parameters you can setup the behaviour without using environment variables from a workflow file. Values from these parameters override the values of the corresponding environment variables, so you can setup default environment variables and modify the behaviour of a conan for some jobs/steps exclusivly.

compiler::
Sets which compiler conan should use. Use this option in combination with compiler-versions. Defaults to an empty string. conan_package_tools will choose a compiler based on environment variables in this case. Other supported values are:
* gcc
* apple_clang
* vs
compiler-verions::
**Required if compiler is set** While compiler option chooses which environment variable
to setup, this options sets its value:
* CONAN_GCC_VERSIONS
* CONAN_APPLE_CLANG_VERIONS
* CONAN_VISUAL_VERIONS
docker-images::
Overrides or clears CONAN_DOCKER_IMAGE environment variable. Set to an empty string to do nothing. Set to 'clear' to undefine the environment variable. Defaults to empty string.

== Maintainer
Dmitry Arkhipov <grisumbras@gmail.com>

== Contributing
Patches welcome!

== License
link:LICENSE[BSL-1.0] (C) 2019 Dmitry Arkhipov
